### Overview

Many of you would have a question, Does Node.js has something called, global as web browsers got window ? Answer is yes. Node.js too have global objects. This section introduces to the concept of global objects in Node js.

### Learning Outcome
- What are Global Objects?
- How to use Global Object?
- How is global object in Node.js different from window object in Javascript.
- Use cases of Global Object.


### Introduction

#### Global Objects

- By definition A Global object is, An object that always exists in the global scope.
- This concept holds true in any programming language.
- The global object provides variables and functions that are available anywhere. By default, those that are built into the language or the environment.
- Node.js global objects are global in nature and available in all modules. You don't need to include these objects in your application; rather they can be used directly. These objects are modules, functions, strings and object etc. Some of these objects aren't actually in the global scope but in the module scope. Few of teh global objects are as follows - 
	- __filename
	- Console
	- Process
	- Buffer
	- setImmediate(callback[, arg][, ...])
	- setInterval(callback, delay[, arg][, ...])
	- setTimeout(callback, delay[, arg][, ...])
	- clearImmediate(immediateObject)
	- clearInterval(intervalObject)
	- clearTimeout(timeoutObject)

- In a browser it is named window, for Node.js it is global, for other environments it may have another name. To see the complete list of global objects do the following exercise 
	1. In the Node.js application that you created in last sprint, Create a file called, global.js
	2. Copy this statement in your file and save the file

	```
	console.log(global);
	```
	3. Run the code - Open a command prompt and type node global. It logs the entire global object.

- In the Node.js module system, each file is treated as a separate module. The Global objects are available in all modules.
- While in browsers the global scope is the window object, in nodeJS the global scope of a module is the module itself, so when you define a variable in the global scope of your Node.js module, it will be local to this module.
	
#### How is global object in Node.js different from window object present in Javascript.
As we know about the existence of global in Node.js, let us see what it provides and how it is different than browser's window object

Try this code in your browser's Console,

```
var test = "Testing Global Object in Browser";
console.log(window.test);
```

As expected, you should get the output as, 'Testing Global Object in Browser'. Because the variable declared globally, would be accessible by the global object, i.e, window object in browser.

Now create test.js in your Node.js application and copy the below code in this file

```
var test = "Testing Global Object in Node.js";
console.log(global.test);
```

Save the changes and run from terminal as, node test. You will see difference in behavior for Node.js. It prints undefined. Why? Because, by creating a variable in Node.js file, you do not add that variable as a property to the global object.

While in browsers the global scope is the window object, in nodeJS the global scope of a module is the module itself, so when you define a variable in the global scope of your Node.js module, it will be local to this module.

Now modify index.js and try this code,


```
	var test = "Testing Global Object in Node.js";
	console.log(test);
```

Running the above code will log 'Testing Global Object in Node.js'.

In the above examples we saw how to use in built global objects. Let us now see how to Declare and Use your own Global Variable that you can access across modules

```
	global.globalVariable = "This can be accessed from all the modules!!";
	console.log(globalVariable); // Output: "This can be accessed from all the modules!!"
```

globalVariable will now be accessible in all the other modules. So this is how to define a global variable in node, anything you attach to "gobal" keyword becomes part of the global object.

### What you must do
- There is much more to it, read why it is not a good practice to define a global object, explore more on [Node.js Global Objects](https://nodejs.org/api/globals.html#globals_global_objects)
- Read the [Practical Use Cases for Global Variables](https://stackabuse.com/using-global-variables-in-node-js/)
- Listen to the summary of this session [here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jn8PZNBmKm0&t=7s)


#### Additional Resources
Read this to [dive deep into global objects](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/43627622/what-is-the-global-object-in-nodejs)





