### Overview
Now that we have learnt abot how to create a module and how to create API's. Next step to learn how to connect your application to databases so that you can store user data. In this section you will learn the basics of using databases with Node.js.

### Learning Outcome
- What is a datastore?
- Types of datastore or databases?

### Introduction
In Node there are various ways of storing the data. 
1. Storing data in global object
```
    const employees = []

    app.post('/employees', function (req, res) {
        // get employee data from the request body
        const employee = req.body;
        employees.push({
            name: employee.name,
            age: employee.age,
            email: employee.email
        });
        res.send('Employee successfully added');
    })
```

If you store the data in global variable like this it will reside in the memory for the lifetime of your application. The only caveat is if you restart the application the data will be lost since all the variable will be re-initialised.

2. Storing data in a file
The next thing that we can do is store data in a file. This will solve the problem with stroing the data in global variable
```
    const fs = require('fs')

    app.post('/employees', function (req, res) {
        const employee = req.body;
        fs.appendFile('employees.txt', JSON.stringify({
            name: employee.name,
            age: employee.age,
            email: employee.email
        }), (err) => {
            if (err) {
                console.log('Error saving employee!');
            } else {
                res.send('Employee successfully added');;
            }
        })
    });
```

This way we won’t lose user data, not even after a server reset.
However storing user data this way still has a couple of problems:
    - Appending is okay, but think about updating or deleting.
    - If we're working with files, there is no easy way to access them in parallel (system-wide locks will prevent you from writing).
    - Scaling our application will be an issue

This where real databases come into picture. 



### What you must do
- Get acquainted with [what is postgresSQL?]


#### Additional Resources
- Get acquainted with [fundamentals of database](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FR4QIeZaPeM)
- Watch a video - [this video will help beginners understand the basics of database management systems](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=wR0jg0eQsZA)




